It's a pleasure to relate to you two aspects of the teaching committee's work.
First, what does it take to put a regional convention together these days?
And second, what can we expect with regard to our midweek meetings?
The teaching committee is very grateful to every Bethel department.
Each of you has contributed in some way to the spiritually festive events
that we enjoy at our conventions and our midweek meetings.
Our conventions have come a long way since 1889.
But as you'll see, the improvements must be attributed to Jehovah.
This convention is so beautiful. It moves you to the core.
It's a very spiritually enriching experience to all of us.
You really see the governing body is caring for us and it's amazing.
This sentiment has been echoed for over a century.
How is it that year after year, people who have been in the truth for decades
can say that the most recent convention has surpassed all preceding ones.
And how do the brothers who prepare convention programs feel when they hear comments like that?
If this were merely the work of humans, they might feel like Caleb
as depicted in the 2017 regional conventions.
Thankfully, this is not the work of one man.
All praise goes to Jehovah for the timely conventions we enjoy.
His spirit is working through many willing volunteers.
Let's take a brief look at how our conventions are made.
It all begins with the theme.
As Brother Morris pointed out at the 2017 regional convention,
one word themes are determined years in advance.
That one word will guide those preparing the program.
Dramas, the most labor-intensive part of a program,
are developed five years in advance.
To prepare scripts, the teaching committee cooperates closely
with the writing department and working with a team known as the drama review group.
These experienced writers develop scriptural plots that teach lessons
in harmony with the convention theme.
Scripts are extensively researched,
and then sent to audio video services or AVS for production.
All of this work has to begin early,
but how is the rest of a convention program developed?
Each year, the teaching committee carefully considers reports
from around the world from branch committees and world headquarters representatives,
often such reports indicate topics that could be addressed on a convention.
The teaching committee then selects a more specific theme that will serve as the basis
for addressing the needs of our worldwide brotherhood.
The theme is submitted to the entire governing body for approval.
Then, work begins on scripture themes for each day of the convention.
The Friday program lays the foundation.
What is the central truth under discussion?
Why should we give attention to it now?
Saturday brings admonition on personal conduct, field ministry, and family life.
Sunday often highlights what the Bible says about our future
and encouragement to maintain our hope.
Once this general framework is established,
talks are conceived, and additional lines of reasoning are chosen.
Attention is given to how to present ideas in a variety of ways.
Could a scriptural discussion reach the heart more effectively by means of an interview or a video?
This detailed sketch is all worked out before the teaching committee assigns teams of writers.
AVS collaborates with the writers in the development of brief videos.
The art department brainstorms ideas for convention branding.
The compiler follows the written content through 70 steps of research, fact checking, and proofreading.
Then, all of these outlines and scripts have to be translated into the 343 languages in which we hold regional conventions.
Translation services helps teams around the world to overcome challenges with the text.
Composers and arrangers make music tracks for the 18 songs that have been selected and the six music video preludes.
Music services also produces and records musical scores for the feature film, the audio drama, and some 40 other brief videos that are used on the program.
But the teaching committee's involvement doesn't end here.
It provides direction regarding the assigning of speakers.
The design of sound systems, the securing of contracts for hotels and venues, the operation of convention departments, and the training of volunteers.
Thousands of willing workers are involved, each submitting to the inspired direction in God's word, and the influence of His Holy Spirit.
The benefits of such collaboration are felt not only at our annual conventions, but also at our weekly meetings.
It's been two years since the inception of our Christian life and ministry midweek meeting.
How have things been going on that front?
Everything got better, how the brothers and sisters feel about the meeting, and how they participate.
There are more videos at the meetings, so I feel closer to the worldwide brotherhood.
I really enjoy what it does for young ones, especially the two-minute parts.
You see young ones, even very young children, do a demonstration.
Instead of just underlining to prepare, now I get excited, looking for gems.
We really dig into a Bible account. I learn a whole lot more.
After the meeting, we enjoy discussing the gems we discovered.
Every meeting gives you something practical that you can apply the next weekend, right away.
Now, we don't just read the Bible as a family, but we pay more attention to Jehovah's qualities.
Young ones and new publishers are now less hesitant about sharing their beliefs at the door, because they simply do what they learned at the meetings.
Regarding production of the meeting, methods of Gilead school are employed in the approach to study.
The Gilead approach to study considers context, explanation, and application.
Analyzing that context considers the time period, the historical setting, and the writer's intent.
These are built into the treasures from God's Word and the introductions to the Bible books videos we see at the midweek meetings.
The explanations for the verses are all based on the publications of the faithful discrete slave to ensure accuracy and correct understanding.
After all, at Gilead school, students aren't allowed to guess.
Once a scripture is explained accurately, then it can be applied properly.
This method of context, explanation, followed by application, leads to meaningful Bible study.
The service committee office provides input on field service presentations and living as Christians.
The writing department gives insight on how to feature our publications.
What will change after January?
As announced at the 2017 annual meeting, the public edition of the watchtower will be published three times a year instead of six.
The same will be true for a wake. Also, specific monthly literature offers have been discontinued.
Thus, we will enjoy some adjustments in our field service presentations.
As you will see, the new focus will be not so much on publications, but on conversations.
Clearly, the production of our midweek meetings and regional conventions takes a lot of planning and the cooperation of many willing workers in a variety of Bethel departments.
But the positive effects are felt around the world.
All I could say to Jehovah is thank you, Jehovah, for letting me be here.
I feel very grateful to Jehovah for the meetings.
Thank you, Jehovah.
Sometimes Bethel receives letters that go something like this.
Thank you for your tireless efforts.
Actually, the brothers and sisters working on all these projects are tired.
But they never tire of trusting in and cooperating with the one who truly is tireless, the source of all divine instruction, Jehovah.
He alone can replace copper with gold so that each segment of divine education truly is the best ever.